about the effects of the Abraham Accords
on global anti-semitism
especially Muslim anti-semitism
my name is Evelyn Marcus together with
the Blaze TV I make a documentary about
Rising anti-Semitism never again is now
I co-host never again is now podcasts a
weekly podcast about global
anti-Semitism which can be found on
Spotify Apple podcasts in YouTube
foreign
born and raised in the Netherlands in a
family of Holocaust Survivors and moved
to the United States in 2006 together
with my partner Rosa
because of the rising anti-Semitism in
Europe
now let me move on to our topic
soon after the Nazis were defeated
another lethal Force stood up against
the Jewish people
the Arab countries have the Arab
countries have tried to wipe Israel off
the map many times since Israel's
founding and Iran is still trying it
the hatred is not only against Israel
but also against Jews in general
and Christians
anti-semitic propaganda is vast in the
Middle East
and Islamic theology theology is full of
Jew hatred
[Music]
since the 1960s Muslim Jew hatred spread
out to other parts of the world
I remember then still living in Europe
that our synagogues and Jewish schools
were turned into heavily protected
bunkers to protect Jews against
pro-palestinian terrorist attacks
we see the same process starting now in
America
Muslim popular s in the Middle East
southeast Asia and the West
have been radicalized against Israel and
the Jews with Middle Eastern resources
and then in 2020
the Trump Administration mediated the
Abraham Accords
between various Arab countries Israel
and the United States and I was
wondering will this normalization and
increased collaboration of various Arab
countries with Israel
diminish anti-Semitism in the Middle
East
will there be less anti-israel and
anti-jewish propaganda in the Middle
Eastern media and school books
will there be less fatwas against Israel
and Jews
and will less petrol dollars flow to
radical Muslim organizations operating
in the West
I have the honor to discuss these
questions with two renowned experts on
the Middle East and on global Islam
Carolyn Glick and Robert Spencer
Carolyn
yes please give them a warm Applause
Karen Blake if the senior contributing
editor of the Jewish news Syndicate the
senior diplomatic commentator for
Israel's Channel 14 and a Newsweek
columnist she is the senior fellow for
Middle Eastern Affairs at the center for
security policy in Washington DC and the
author of the Israeli solution a
one-state plan for peace in the Middle
East from 1994 to 1996 she served as a
core member of Israel's negotiating team
with the PLO
[Music]
Robert Spencer is the director of jihad
watch and the Sherman fellow at the
David Horowitz Freedom Center he's the
author of 26 books including the New
York time bestsellers the politically
incorrect guide to Islam and the
Crusades the truth about Muhammad and
the history of jihad from Muhammad to
Isis
his latest books are the critical Quran
explained from Key Islamic comment
commentaries and contemporary history
historical research and who lost
Afghanistan
forthcoming is the Summit is the Sumter
Gambit how the left is trying to foment
Civil War and the book is coming in
January 2023.
so let me start with
asking some questions to you Carolyn
um
it is two years now
since the Abram Accords were signed
um what collaboration and normalization
do you see between Arab countries and
Israel
all right well thanks for that question
I think the Abraham Accords are
um everybody uses the word revolutionary
um and to the point where it's not clear
what people mean when they say
revolutionary but I'll just put it out
there it's a it was a revolutionary
development in the Middle East and the
reason it's revolutionary is because it
changed the way that things have been
done in the region and in a significant
way in a way that really impacts the
Strategic landscape of the Middle East
in a pretty fundamental way
the peace deals that Israel reached in
the 19 in in 1979 with Egypt and then in
1994 with Jordan
were political Arrangements that were
predicated on a lot of
um things but they weren't predicated on
shared interests they were predicated on
a desire to placate the United States on
the part of Anwar Sadat to pay in the
coinage of a cold peace with Israel and
order to receive a more significant and
regular transfers of U.S foreign
assistance civilian and Military to
Egypt
and in Jordan's case it was
in in many ways it was just sort of a
a also first of all a way to extend and
expand Jordan's bilateral ties with the
United States of America but it was also
something that was supposed to be
reflective of already existing ties
between Israel and and Jordan and the
Jordanian regime we can get into why it
actually harmed those relations after it
happened in 1994 but the difference
between those and the Abraham Accords is
that the Abraham Accords were not about
trying to receive better ties with the
United States on the part of the Abraham
Accord participants it was about
promoting joint interest between Israel
and the Arab States involved and also
the sponsor behind the scenes of those
Accord Saudi Arabia and Israel they were
a reflection of an already existing
operational Alliance that Israel had
forged with the states of the Persian
Gulf during the Obama Administration as
a response to to American hostility
towards both Israel and those Arab Gulf
States with everything related to Iran
the Obama Administration embarked on a
policy of realigning the United States
away from its traditional allies Israel
and the Arabs and the Sunni Arabs and
towards Iran on the one hand of the
Muslim Brotherhood on the other we saw
this most clearly and graphically with
the Obama administration's support for
the overthrow of Jose Mubarak in Egypt
Mubarak had been the anchor of America's
alliance system with the Sunni Arab
world for a generation and a half and
when the United States sided with the
Muslim Brotherhood against Mubarak and
forced him out of power to enable the
rise of the Muslim Brotherhood in in
Egypt that set off alarm Bells obviously
in Israel but also throughout the Arab
world led by Saudi Arabia when they
realized that the United States was
threatening their own regimes so the
Arab Spring fomented a rise of under the
table bilateral ties between Israel and
the Sunni Arab states
it was actually the in in instigator of
those ties was the fact that Israel was
lobbying Congress against the Obama
Administration to maintain military
support for Egypt after the 2013
military coup that ousted Morsi the
Egyptian the Egyptian president from the
Muslim Brotherhood from power and
replaced him with the chief of staff of
the Egyptian Military and the defense
minister
gamala Abdullah Assisi
um and the Biden admin the Obama
Administration wanted to end U.S
military support for Egypt as a sanction
against the Egyptian Military and
Netanyahu went to Congress and lobbied
them to maintain U.S military support
for Egypt so that was sort of the
beginning of the alliance so the Abraham
Accords were a Capstone of an alliance
that had already been formed between
Israel and the Sunni Gulf States during
the Obama Administration when when
Donald Trump came into office in 17 he
was looking for a way to rebuild
America's Alliance system with the Sunni
Arab world from the wreckage that Obama
had left behind with his pro-iran policy
which is why his first trip as president
was to Saudi Arabia and then to Israel
and that trip marked a realignment back
to America's traditional allies in the
Arab world on the one hand and on on
Israel on the other hand
so it's important to note that this is a
very very significant distinction and
then the Abraham Accords
were an expression both of America
wishing to reassert American leadership
over this Alliance and also
um
to take credit for something that
essentially had happened
out of American antagonism towards these
states and as an effort to reassert
American strategic sanity in the Middle
East and and standing with America's
allies against America's enemies which
are led by Iran but also the Muslim
Brotherhood
so this is a very different kind of
relationship the Abraham Accords are the
other thing that they're a function of
is Israel's Rising economic power the
Arabs as they saw both the rise in
American energy production on the one
hand and the rise of the climate change
fanaticism in the West on the other hand
started to realize that they need to
diversify their economies away from only
energy also you had a lot of States like
the UAE and Bahrain who had an enormous
amount of money that they wanted to
invest in various things and they saw
that they were actually sitting next to
the startup nation which is
a vital source of technology and also of
means a good parking lot for their money
because it's a good and stable
investment and it's right next door so
Israel is very attractive as an
investment hub for these countries and
the Abraham Accord provided provide it's
a both economic and strategic
expression of these joint interests
between Israel and these states and so
over the past two years our trade with
these countries has skyrocketed we just
signed a free trade agreement with the
UAE
and and so
this is very very different from the
cold piece that we had with Egypt and
Jordan for the past generation and how
it's impacted anti-Semitism is very
clear because anti-Semitism particularly
in the Arab world
um
is a function of the interests of the
regimes and so when the regimes feel
that the use of anti-Semitism advances
their strategic interests as they see
them then they promote it because these
are not democracies where you have free
Medias where you have free presses there
are largely government controlled so
that then the same is true of the
education system and the mosques so when
the governments have an interest in
promoting anti-Semitism they do and when
close cooperation with the Israelis they
don't so we are seeing a significant
diminishment in anti-jewish themes in
the media and in the school system and
the mosques in these countries
since over even before the Abraham
Accords were formally signed two years
ago in the White House and so I think
it's important here we learn a very
important lesson about anti-Semitism
which is that when the regimes that
promote anti-Semitism change their View
and their perspective on their national
interests then their interest in
promoting anti-Semitism goes down and
here is the last point that I'll make in
in response to your question so
Netanyahu
recognized that
the basic engine for Israel's power and
ability to develop peaceful ties and
strengthen itself militarily was by
building itself up economically which is
why his free market reforms during his
tenure particularly as Finance Minister
from 2003 to 2005 was most significant
arguably part of his of his public
career to a degree anyway it was the
basis that in the free market reforms
that he enacted first as prime minister
from 1996 to 1999 that formed the basis
as well of the Abraham courts because
Israel's economy has grown so
tremendously over the past generation
that almost under the radar for a lot of
American Jews in particular Israel has
become an emerged economy a first world
economy and a global leader in
Innovation and technology and in a lot
of technologies that are fueling the
rise as well of the third world of
Africa and Latin American countries and
now also of Arab countries so
that gave Israel a means to attract
support and
Partnerships with a lot of countries
that had previously not worked with
Israel and I think that you find that
Israel's power and its ability to
attract interest and investment and a
desire for Partnerships from other
countries than has it creates a virtual
virtuous circle where Israel is able to
become more powerful
diplomatically more powerful militarily
and more powerful
economically because we're able to
attract more investment and more
interest and one of the side effects of
this also is that the more people are
interested in bilateral ties with the
Jewish State the less interested they
are in spreading hatred of Jews the one
place the places where we see this not
happening are places that have already
had large trade with Israel including
Europe and in the United States where
you have the same woke
revolutionaries in both areas that are
spreading and actively propagating Jew
hatred in popular culture
thank you so
um
you definitely see
less anti-Semitism being spread and
produced by the governments of the
country involved in the collaboration
with Israel
you see an interest
in in the business world to collaborate
with Israel
in general in the population what what
changes do you see in the Arab
population of these of these countries
involved in the in in the Accords in
their attitudes towards Jews and Israel
well I mean you know I'm not I don't
have my finger on the pulse of society
in Abu Dhabi or or in Manama but I can
say that what we're saying expressed in
terms of the welcoming that a very very
large numbers of Israelis are receiving
in these areas
from everybody from merchants and
restaurant owners who have cultured
their kitchens and are you know in these
five-star hotels four-star hotels where
they're trying to attract Israeli
tourists they open up kosher kitchens in
a way that you know you don't see in
America where to make kosher food
available
on a mass level for Israeli businessmen
Israeli tourists putting together
tourism packages with Israel's Ministry
of Tourism enabling
expansive government sponsorship and
support for the opening of synagogues
and Jewish cultural centers in these
countries
celebrating with government officials
Jewish holidays and places like Abu
Dhabi I mean it's all very surrealistic
and you know it's all being shown on
Israeli television or trade fairs
that you see the most popular uh the
most popular booth in these trade fairs
in the Gulf are the Israeli booths where
people are lined up and you know to
receive a bracelet that shows that they
visited the Israeli booth and the
Abu Dhabi Trade Fair or whatever the
hell or technology fair is like a status
symbol and everybody wants their picture
taken with their Israel bracelets so
this is like I said I don't like using
the word revolutionary too much because
I think it's been it's being overused
but I don't think that you can look at
the images that are coming out of these
places and then talking to people who
just got back from or whatever and their
extraordinary responses like the way
that they've been received I think it's
pretty remarkable the one caveat I would
say though and I think that you know
this is very clear is that because this
is interest-based you know if People's
interests or the perception of the
interests of the leaders of these
regimes changes then we can also see a
shift back to a reversion to or some
sort of new form of an instrumental use
of anti-Semitism on their part which is
why I think that it's important to see
the deepening of these ties because over
time the more the more expansive these
bilateral ties become the more enmeshed
the interests of the of these countries
with Israel's interests is going to
become and so that's important and one
last thing I'll say about that is that
the Biden Administration has been doing
absolutely everything in its power to
undermine discredit and if possible
destroy the Abraham Accords but we can
talk about that and you know okay
um
one last question to you at this point
yesterday in your presentation you
mentioned that Bibi Netanyahu wants to
further intensify the collaboration with
Arab countries what will we focus on you
think what will be well he said uh
several times that throughout the the
campaign that we won
that he hopes to expand the Abraham
Accords to include as well Saudi Arabia
winning is great you know you never
should get sick of it or tired of it but
um
but and it makes a big difference but he
said repeatedly that he wants to forge a
piece with Saudi Arabia and I think that
here too
um I don't know how it's going to work
out I don't believe that we should pay a
price for expanding ties that are below
the table in order to make them above
board I think that we should not pay any
price for that because it's a bilateral
interest however
I think that given the way that the
Biden Administration is behaving towards
Israel and towards Saudi Arabia I think
that the same rationale that informed
the forging of these ties during the
Obama Administration from the Arabs
bring on
still and in in in in a way has become
even more urgent today it's still it
still pertains and or obtains and and
it's become more urgent as Iran becomes
closer and closer to becoming a
nuclear-armed state so I think
that Israel's way uh it was this this
was true in 2014 in our mini war with
Hamas
when the Obama Administration tried to
force Israel to its knees and to accept
hamas's ceasefire terms and Israel was
able to avoid doing that by by
using its operational alliance with the
Egyptians the Saudis and the UAE who
sided with Israel against gen Carrie and
turkey and Qatar who were siding with
Hamas and so it was because of Assisi in
particular but also the UAE and Saudi
Arabia that sided with Israel openly in
that war that Obama was stymied and he
wasn't able to force Israel to accept
all of hamas's demands in that war and
so I think here you're going to be
seeing a Saudi Israeli cooperation
that's also going to embarrass the Biden
administration
because they don't want to be perceived
as anti-peace and what instead they're
doing which is exceedingly Insidious is
that they're trying to pretend that this
isn't about ties it's about integrating
Israel into the air into the region and
the way that they want to integrate
Israel is to force Israel to its knees
and you know vis-a-vis Lebanon which we
saw with the gas deal that they forced
Israel to surrender its territorial all
in Maritime water and economic Waters to
Hezbollah controlled Lebanon just a week
before our election and they're going to
try to continue to empower Lebanon and
pretend that this is called peace at
Israel's expense so Israel and Saudi
Arabia are going to have to be more open
in their ties in order to
push back against the Biden
administration's effort I I thank you
for that elaboration and I sent you for
that deliberation I have to stop you
here because of time and I would love to
hear more but we have a limited amount
of time Robert at the one hand there are
Arab regimes that may see a strategic
interest in collaboration with Israel
but there is also the Islamic relation
religion and Islamic religious
institutions
for decades the Islamic institutions in
the Middle East have spread vicious
anti-Semitism to Muslim populations
what are the changes in tone about
Israel and Jews coming from religious
institutions in countries that now
collaborate with Israel
in Bahrain in the UAE in the other
Abraham Accord countries there's been an
extraordinary change and a complete the
emphasis of Islamic anti-Semitism
because as Carolyn noted the mosques as
well as the media in these countries are
completely controlled by the government
and so if the government policy changes
then so does the preaching
unfortunately this is always something
that can happen
for pragmatic reasons as the Abraham
Accords are indeed pragmatic agreements
based on the shared Mutual threat that
the Arab states that have entered into
them have with ir with Israel vis-a-vis
Iran
but because they are not based on
Islamic principles they're always under
pressure from salafis from the Islamic
hardliners who will say and are saying
that you are being disloyal to Islam in
entering into these agreements and you
have to leave them or we will continue
to increase the pressure on you
and ultimately hope to overthrow the
governments that entered into the
agreements
based on Islamic revolutions
and this could happen
it can't be discounted as a matter of
fact paradoxically we are all rooting
for the people of Iran and I certainly
do not want to say the slightest thing
against that but it does have to be
noted at the same time that if the
Islamic Republic Falls which is a
consummation devoutly to be wished then
the Abraham Accords might strangely
enough be more vulnerable
because if you had a benign
pro-western government in Tehran then
the one of the primary reasons why the
Accords were entered into to start with
would be removed
and even if that doesn't happen and the
Islamic Republic remains in power and of
course our friends in the Biden
Administration are doing everything they
can to ensure that as well as to try to
undermine the Abraham Accords
then uh this there's still the
possibility that based on the deep roots
of Islamic anti-Semitism that they could
be weakened in any case but still that's
not to be not to take away from the fact
that they are an extraordinary
achievement
and you remember how confidently John
Kerry was saying in 2014 2015 2016 you
simply cannot bypass the Palestinians in
any Mideast peace agreement you have to
go through them it all comes through
them and so one of the reasons for the
Biden Administration which is of course
Obama's third term one of the reasons
for the rage in the Obama Administration
Biden Administration against the Abraham
Accords is how thoroughly Trump and
Jared Kushner showed up the foreign
policy establishment and upended the
conventional wisdom that had prevailed
for decades in Washington and still
prevails in the state department and so
they have such egg on their face they
have to try to reassert that they were
right all along and show that this well
this never really could have worked you
see and and you can't dismiss the
Palestinians in this this way but
actually it shows that Carrie was 100
percent wrong that the Palestinians do
not control they're not The Gatekeepers
for the Middle East peace process that
you can appeal to the other Arab states
on pragmatic grounds and get them to
enter into Accords with Israel on the
basis of those pragmatic reasons even
despite Islamic principles
and this is a phenomenon that we see
throughout Islamic history there are all
kinds of examples of Islamic leaders
making agreements with non-muslim
leaders and entering into even military
alliances on the basis of shared
short-term
threats
but when those short-term threats are
eliminated then the Islamic principles
tend to reassert themselves and also
there again in every case historically
you also have those rulers who entered
into the agreements with the Christians
or whoever being put under pressure by
the hardliners within their own domains
so all these things are intention we
don't know of course who will prevail in
the end but there's really no taking
away from the fact that one of the most
important historical achievements of
this century was the Abraham Accords
thank you
um if we look at the Muslim
population outside the Middle East
especially in the West
Robert what do you what changes do you
see
in that population as a result of the
Abraham Accords or the intensified
collaboration between Arab countries and
Israel well you know Evelyn we have to
remember that the major Muslim and
Palestinian organizations in the United
States are all Linked In One Way or
Another to the Muslim Brotherhood
and the Muslim brotherhood's Primary
Center of operations is Qatar
which is of course obviously a rival to
Bahrain and UAE on the Arabian Peninsula
and so
the anti-Semitism that we see
intensifying in the United States over
the last few years as well as in Western
Europe is a direct result of the
influence of these Brotherhood
organizations over groups like students
for justice in Palestine American
Muslims for Palestine of course the
Council on American Islamic relations
Islamic Society of North America and all
the rest of them
in their rage over the Abraham Accords
and their attempt to undermine it by
heightening the the the tensions on
American college campuses against Israel
and trying to make anti-Semitism more
mainstream on the American left which of
course they've had great success in
doing in terms of getting ilhan Omar and
Rashida tleb into Congress
and then their friend Alexandria
ocasio-cortez who not even Muslim Echoes
all their anti-Semitism and all their
anti-israel rhetoric of course she
doesn't know or doesn't care how she's
being played she just knows who's
signing the checks and so that's as far
as it goes but it's an indication of the
response to the Abraham Accords that the
Brotherhood organizations have been
pursuing there has been a market uptick
in anti-semitic activity on American
college campuses University campuses and
this is no coincidence comrade as the
marxists say this is absolutely related
to the Abraham Accords because the
biggest danger that the Brotherhood
groups have is that the Muslim
communities in the United States and
their leftist allies will start to think
well really there's no problem we can do
business with Israel we can work with
Israel we can have economic and cultural
exchanges with Israel
and then they're all out of business so
this is why there is such a
normalization of all this Jew hatred at
this point
okay
I saw you write things down about well I
just wanted to add it's just things
because I think it's important just to
expand on what Robert you just said we
have to remember that the United States
abiding Administration declared Qatar a
major NATO Ally last year or this past
year and this is an indication that this
is in fact Obama's third term right
because the the Middle East policy of
the Biden Administration is the Middle
East policy of the Obama Administration
and because Qatar is the capital of the
Muslim Brotherhood today and they are
also Iran's closest Ally in the Arab
world the Oba the Obama the obiden
administration
um
they uh they they want to legitimize and
expand the power of Qatar and we have to
also look at the World Cup that's going
to be held in Qatar as an expression of
this as well and Qatar is an enemy of
the United States it is second I would
argue only to Iran as a state sponsor of
terrorism there is not one major Sunni
terrorist organization that is not
headquartered or somehow or another
logistically based out of Doha and they
are also an epicenter sort of there are
node a major node maybe the the primary
node of the co-mingling of the woke
Americans Europeans animals and
Brotherhood Iran and you see a lot of
colleges have campuses in Doha you have
the Brookings Institute which is almost
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Qatari
regime and of course Al Jazeera and
English and in and in Arabic that are
mouthpieces for Muslim Brotherhood and
Iranian propaganda against Israel
against Jews against the West against
the United States
and they're all very very intimately
linked to senior members of the Biden
Administration and the Declaration of
Qatar as a major non-nato Ally was an
expression of that as well and finally I
would say that you know the outgoing
Administration in Israel the leftists is
Muslim Brotherhood government that is
just leaving they were working to expand
Israel's ties with Qatar and they
fundamentally as well don't understand
the nature of the Abraham Accords and
they almost undermine them the the
maritime agreement that the Biden
Administration coerced Israel to accept
with Lebanon was also aimed at Saudi
Arabia because you know what what the
what the maritime agreement really does
it just ex it provides a means to give
Hezbollah billions of dollars and to
transform Iran through Hezbollah into an
actor in the Eastern Mediterranean gas
industry this is an American Plan it's a
state department plan
supported also by the state department
under the Trump administration because
the people running Lebanon policy and
the Trump administration were terrible
and the idea is this is a way to save
Lebanon from Financial ruin while
rejecting or ignoring the fact that
Lebanon is completely controlled by Iran
through Hezbollah which controls both
the Lebanese military and the Lebanese
government and so you've had successive
U.S administrations that refuse to
recognize this obvious fact
and this is a really strategic disaster
for Israel and it's one of the first
orders of business that the incoming
government is going to have to deal with
because we just gave energy resources to
Hezbollah and that is a major strategic
uh issue that is that's going to be
challenging Us in in the months to come
before we close uh this um discussion I
would like to give you the opportunity
to ask some questions
is there a microphone here right here
I don't know about that hope that's the
case of diminishing though
but
I'm very concerned that well it seems to
me he's the reason why the relationship
between
Saudi has to be
not overt has to move below the public
vision is because of that here
yeah that's right absolutely
could you what's your question please
absolutely yeah you know there's an
extraordinary video interview of
Muhammad bin Salman that you might be
interested in tracking down he covers a
wide range of topics and he's completely
calm and in command the whole time but
then they start asking him about the
reform and about the parameters of how
far he can go and so on and getting
quite specific and suddenly he develops
this very odd verbal tick or or facial
tick really where he keeps doing
something like
and and jerking his head off as if he's
afraid he's going to get it cut off
it's and it's only in that period when
he's talking about that but I thought
well that's sort of EX sort of revealing
really that uh that's really true that
he has to tread a very fine line and the
Lev the the relationship with Israel has
to be completely Subrosa because
any if he goes too far he he loses
everything
going back to my channel and said about
Israel building alliances this is born
within the Emirates but
people in in Saudi Arabia were the best
Adventures in relationships with Israel
economic whatever technological
how is that process really
Islam at all in Saudi Arabia the way it
is
or
other more obstacles
it's moving along very very quickly and
I and and expansively
um and again we could not have I think
you know one of the things that's most
uh
alarming about the Biden
administration's behavior is their
effort to demonize uh Bin Salman
Muhammad bin Salman
because they understand that he is
behind this whole realignment of the
Arab world towards Israel and this for
them is a ex is an existential threat to
their entire doctrine of the Middle East
which is that you know America must
realign towards its enemies towards Iran
and towards the Muslim Brotherhood and
away from its allies because it also
renders the United States much less
influential uh in Israel and in the
Muslim World outside of Iran and the
Muslim Brotherhood so I think that you
know when we're looking at the expansion
of Israeli Saudi Tides I mean Saudi
Arabia allowed for overflight of
Civilian Airlines
to uh between Israel and the UAE and you
cannot have any of the Abraham Accords
without the Saudis none of them would
have agreed to them if the Saudis hadn't
been pushing it so this is all a
function of
of a functional peace between Israel and
Saudi Arabia that was initiated by the
Saudis under MBS so you know
there's there's no there's no way to get
around that and as to just one last
thing about your question about above
the table or below the table and what's
important I said that Israel's ties with
Jordan suffered after we signed the
peace deal and that was because
precisely the kinds of pressures that
are being brought to bear on MBS by the
religious establishment because the
Jordanian
Israel and Jordan have had a strategic
partnership since the 1970s at a minimum
when Israel threatened Syria with war
because of the Palestinian the the
Syrian support for the PLO takeover of
Jordan in 1970
um and so those ties suffered when they
were brought above board because then
suddenly they were open to public
scrutiny by a very very anti-israel and
anti-semitic although that's Anonymous
public religious authorities and
Palestinian majority and Jordan so I
agree I mean that's why I said at the
outset of the Abraham Accords two years
ago I wrote a column and I I opposed
them in the sense that I thought that it
was more strategically imperative for
Israel to assert our sovereignty over
the parts of Judea and Samaria
stipulated and enabled by the Trump
peace plan but I think that the point is
that we should not be paying anything
for these ties if they're possible and
feasible from the Arab perspective fine
if not then the under the table the
Subrosa cooperation and strategic
Alliance that we've forged with the
sunnis suffices particularly because
they're interested in economic ties with
Israel and the absence of open ties
between Israel and Saudi Arabia has not
inhibited one iota the expansion of
economic ties between Israel and Saudi
Arabia through the UAE or what have you
never mind
um Georgette
so when Trump visited the first visit to
Saudi Arabia the most incredible image
with two Jews sitting on the podium
Jared and Ivanka Kushner for the whole
of Saudi Arabia and the Arab world to
see plus the two women without head
coverings Melania and Ivanka Now bibi's
new Coalition is talking about opening
up the temple they want the Temple Mount
open to everyone is this going to
destroy the Abraham Accords in any way
who who are you asking the questions
um let's both
um answer I'm sorry I'm not quite sure I
heard everything you were asking
um she was talking about
um let me just answer it and you'll get
the question all right so the question
is
um you know we have
um several not I mean in all of the four
parties that are coming together to form
the new government you have a a very
open call for Jews to be allowed to
worship at
judaism's most sacred site which is a
Temple Mount which is also the site of
Al-Aqsa mosque
um and one of them you know is being
specifically demonized by the Americans
by the American Jewish community and by
the Biden Administration whose name is
itamar bengafir who is a very far right
uh nationalist leader who's a member of
the religious Zionism party and I look
at the attention that's being paid to
itamar benfir and his pledge to enable
Jewish prayer on the Temple Mount as a
means
to undermine the Abraham Accords I think
that what we're seeing here is part of a
ploy on the part of the Biden
Administration and their allies in the
American Jewish Community
to undermine this incoming government
undermine the abrahamic Court's coerce
Israel back into a palestinian-centric
foreign policy that
that makes it impossible for Israel to
maintain or expand its bilateral ties
with the Arab world without first bowing
to the unquenchable and
unquenchable demands of the of the
Palestinians for Israel's uh
Annihilation at least politically so I
think that bengvir is being used now how
this will work out depends in part on
the way that he handles the attacks
against him he said something that I
thought was very important after he met
with President Herzog which was that he
wanted to open he's going to apparently
take over the ministry of internal
security which is responsible for the
police and that he wants to open a new
branch of that Ministry for external
Affairs to do
Outreach to uh
undermine these efforts to discredit
Jewish rights on the Temple Mount and to
undermine the abrahamic court so you
know this is a sort of this is very
clearly a ploy to undermine the Abraham
Accords the UAE so far has responded to
Ben Veer by saying you know we don't
care that much and they don't and it's a
way to try to force them to care to put
pressure on them to care to prioritize
again to reinstate the Palestinian veto
over their ties with Israel I don't
think it'll work but this is clearly an
effort on the part of the Biden
Administration and Progressive American
Jewish organizations led by the likes of
Jay Street to try to undermine the
ability of Abraham partner countries to
work together
Robert it should be noted that the
prohibition on Jews preying on the
Temple Mount was a concession that Moshe
Dayan granted in 1967 after The Six Day
War
in order to try to keep the peace at a
time when Israel was asserting
sovereignty over the whole of Jerusalem
and it it's really kind of ridiculous
and appalling that Muslims can pray
there anytime without any restrictions
and Jews can only visit during certain
specified hours and cannot pray even
silently mouthing prayers is not allowed
according to the law
and this law was recently challenged
legally and struck down what's that
that's not a law it's an existing
practice well it was nonetheless
adjudicated and struck down and then
reinstated and so uh it may be that it
becomes the flash point for attacks on
the Abraham Accords that there are
groups that are trying to overturn this
but at the same time if it's not that
pretext it'll be another
the Jihad proceeds on the basis of
grievances real or trumped up and if
they don't have the one they'll find
another one
and so they will be pushing against the
Abraham Accords in any way they possibly
can and if they can use this they'll use
it and if they can't use it they will
use something else
exactly right this brings us to the end
of this panel discussion
um the conclusion is that the Abraham
Accords do have an effect on
anti-Semitism and anti-israelism
especially in the Middle East
but we cannot
we cannot be
complacent it's a fine line it's based
on short-term interests and it can
create pushback against the regimes who
collaborate with Israel
um and
I would like
to thank first and foremost are two
incredible panelists
[Applause]
and I want to thank you the audience
um for being here and and participating
so actively
um I would like to urge you to stay
alert on anti-Semitism globally
educate yourself
by listening to the podcast the weekly
podcast never again is Now podcast which
is on YouTube Apple podcasts and Spotify
defend the Abraham Accords wherever you
can
check out keep checking out your local
mosque
and speak up against anti-Semitism
whenever you can thank you